+++
abstract = "Experimental and theoretical properties of amino acids as building blocks of peptides and proteins have been extensively researched. Each such method assigns a number to each amino acid, and one such assignment is called amino-acid scale. Their usage in bioinformatics to explain and predict behaviour of peptides and proteins is of essential value. The number of such scales is very large. There are more than a hundred scales related just to hydrophobicity. A large number of scales can be a computational burden for algorithms that try to define peptide descriptors combining several of these scales. Hence, it is of interest to construct a smaller, but still representative set of scales. Here, we present software that does this. We test it on the set of scales using a database constructed by Kawashima and collaborators and show that it is possible to significantly reduce the number of scales observed without losing much of the information. An algorithm is implemented in C#. As a result, we provide a smaller database that might be a very useful tool for the analyses and construction of new peptides. Another interesting application of this database would be to compare the artificial intelligence construction of peptides having as an input the complete Kawashima database and this reduced one. Obtaining in both cases similar results would give much credibility to the constructs of such AI algorithms."
authors = ["A. Vrdoljak and D. Vukičević"]
date = "2024-07-09"
doi = "10.1093/imammb/dqae007"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["2"]
publication = "Mathematical Medicine and Biology: A Journal of the IMA (2024)"
selected = true
title = "Selector of Amino-Acid Scales Set"
url_code = ""
url_custom = [{name = "Article on Oxford Academic", url = "https://academic.oup.com/imammb/advance-article/doi/10.1093/imammb/dqae007/7709487"}]
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

+++
